Thank you, Rinpoche. I have two questions. The first one is, in order for our Dzogchen meditation
to keep progressing, how important is it for us to realize that everything is mind?
Not just to think this is mind, this is mind, but to really have more and more conviction that
everything we experience is just mind. How important is that?
Dzogchen practitioners are definitely important to know everything is mind. Generally in Buddhism,
Mahayana, all Mahayana and Vedayana really understand that everything is mind is very important
because it is true, everything is mind.
And for that reason, for example, Dzogchen teaching, always in the teaching, said, as we went,
really those where mind is coming, where is mind now, where is it when, and those are we
establishing of this mind's emptiness.
And now, that is mind. But now, we think of all our perceptions. Everything is mind. All
perceptions, conceptions, is our mind.
And then, the cause of perception, cause of conception, also is mind, according to Buddhism,
everything is mind. Mind develops all these things.
So, whatever that is, song, smell, taste, touch, all that is mind develops. Mind develops. So, that
is according to Buddhism and mind only school.
That is again one of the very few Buddhist schools. And in that school, the Buddha teaching,
entirely these three realms are mind.
Entirely three realms is mind. How you will know that is mind. And in Buddhism, always use one of
the leading examples as a dream.
Dream, all what we dream in the dream. We have form, we have object, we have sound, we have all
these things. What is this?
And where we are dreaming, we see differently. We see subject and object, all that things. But
reality level is mind.
There is no independent existing of those forms and images and sound of the dream outside. It is
all mind.
Similarly, according to the Buddha teaching of mind only school, from that mind only school, all
the Vedayana, this is our big dreams.
What we are. It is all dreams. It is dream images. When we develop these dream images, again in the
teachings said, from the biggest times.
There is no numbers, even that times. We develop three habit patterns at the very beginning time.
Habit patterns of the universe, habit patterns of our physical and habit patterns of our awareness
or consciousness.
And it is activated. That is what we are really reflecting.
So therefore, deep down everything is mind. And then in the perception, consultancy level is mind.
And when we see, for example, who sees? Who sees, I see that. It is your mind.
Your mind, intelligence is reflected through the eye organ and sense to the palm and that kind of
picture came in and then you say, I see that.
And then same with all the other senses. So the perception is mind. Consultant is mind. Mind.
So therefore, it is truly it is. And therefore, Manet teaching, in the Dokki teachings, again in
the mind session teaching, Buddha instruction teaching,
always say that but also in the philosophical second teaching to bring up exactly the nature of the
mind as emptiness.
It is very important to have this certainty wisdom. This is certainty wisdom to bring up this
realization.
We are not making force, understanding, covering up something. It is true. It is exactly.
And the kind of brain truth as truth is realizations. And that is mind, everything mind is really
very important.
It is true. And then mind itself is empty. Mind. Even though mind is everything, but mind itself is
empty.
And that's what we get all those parts of the person in the future kind of embers get it. We don't
see mind. It's empty like that.
And therefore, Buddha is teaching in general, mind is empty. Therefore, it is a correction. Mind
propagates everything.
Therefore, it is emptiness. It's also emptiness. Therefore, therefore, then what Buddha teaching.
Form is emptiness. Emptiness is form. And form is not emptiness. Emptiness is not form. That is the
real truth, exactly as it is.
It's not just making up things, that. So brain that realization is so important in a Jockey
teaching.
So that you have the kind of like, you anchor to yourself. You have the realization of something,
something, something.
So then now, what your thought comes. For example, that is in a two practice, kareer masi, mati lab
ne.
And of course, Jockey is the same thing. Everything is our perceptions.
Why we don't? Why when nurses come scared with that? Or when they can analyze that.
And that is again, for example, great master Manarepa. When he is meditating, when he sees all
those vegans.
What I will say last week, and what we say. He said, great my teacher, problem matva.
Matva introduced me. Everything is mind. Every perception is mind.
And he introduced me. So my mind is empty. With that realization, then he can be bored of that
realization.
As he already practice meditating that, and he bored of that realization.
They know the perceptions of the disciplines are dissolved.
So therefore, a Jockey teaching, realization of everything is mind is very important.
It is very important to understand of the Jockey.